---
pid: obj159
identifier: unionist--text-0159
title: Declaration of the National Anti-Slavery Society
bibliographicCitation: "<em>The Unionist</em> 1833-12-19"
bibliographicCitation.republished: "<em>The Abolitionist</em><br>1:12:178-180 (December
  1833)<br>"
fullIssueSequenceNumber: 1833-12-19 p.01.05
creator: 
_date.created: '1833-12-19'
description: Declaration, and some parts of the deliberations, from the founding meeting
  of the American Anti-Slavery Society in December 1833
language: English
publisher: The Unionist
IsPartOf: 
rights: https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/mark/1.0/
source: The Unionist
subject: Abolition; National News
type: Text
category: Unionist full issue 1833-08-08
article.type: 
volume: '1'
issue: '20'
transcription: "<p>DECLARATION OF THE NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.</p><p>  The
  Convention, assembled in the City of Philadelphia to organize a National<br>  Anti-Slavery
  Society, promptly seize the opportunity to promulgate the<br>  following DECLARATION
  OF SENTIMENTS, as cherished by them in relation to the<br>  enslavement of one-sixth
  portion of the American people.<br></p><p>  More than fifty-seven years have elapsed
  since a band of patriots convened in<br>  this place, to devise measures for the
  deliverance of this country from a<br>  foreign yoke. The corner-stone upon which
  they founded the TEMPLE OF FREEDOM<br>  was broadly this—“that all men are created
  equal; that they are endowed by<br>  their Creator with certain inalienable rights;
  that among these are life,<br>  LIBERTY, and the pursuit of happiness.” At the sound
  of their trumpet-call,<br>  three millions of people rose up as from the sleep of
  death, and rushed to the<br>  strife of blood; deeming it more glorious to die instantly
  as freemen, than<br>  desirable to live one hour as slaves.—They were few in number—poor
  in<br>  resources; but the honest conviction that Truth and Justice, were on their<br>
  \ side, made them invincible.<br></p><p>  We have met together for the achievement
  of an enterprise, without which, that<br>  of our fathers is incomplete, and which,
  for its magnitude, solemnity, and<br>  probable results upon the destiny of the
  world, as far transcends theirs, as<br>  moral truth does physical force.<br></p><p>
  \ In purity of motive, in earnestness of zeal, in decision of purpose, in<br>  intrepidity
  of action, in stead fastness of faith, in sincerity of spirit, we<br>  would not
  be inferior to them.<br></p><p>  <em>Their</em>  principles led them to wage war
  against their oppressors, and to spill human<br>  blood like water, in order to
  be free.<br>  <em>Ours</em>  forbid the doing of evil that good may come, and lead
  us to reject, the use of<br>  all carnal weapons for deliverance from bondage—relying
  solely upon those<br>  which are spiritual, and mighty through God to the pulling
  down of strong<br>  holds.<br></p><p>  <em>Their</em>  measures were physical resistance—the
  marshalling in arms—the hostile<br>  array—the mortal encounter.<br>  <em>Ours</em>
  \ shall be such only as the opposition of moral purity to moral corruption—the<br>
  \ destruction of error by the potency of truth—the overthrow of prejudice by the<br>
  \ power of love—and the abolition of slavery by the spirit of repentance.<br></p><p>
  \ <em>Their</em>  grievances, great as they were, were trifling in comparison with
  the wrongs<br>  and sufferings of those for whom we plead. Our fathers were never
  slaves—never<br>  bought and sold like cattle—never shut out from the light of knowledge
  and<br>  religion—never subjected to the lash of brutal taskmasters.<br></p><p>
  \ But those, for whose emancipation we are striving, —constituting at the<br>  present
  time at least one-sixth part of our countrymen, are recognized by the<br>  laws,
  and treated by their fellow beings, as marketable commodities—as goods<br>  and
  chattels—as brute beasts—are plundered daily of the fruits of their toil<br>  without
  redress;—really enjoy no constitutional nor legal protection from<br>  licentious
  and murderous outrages upon their persons;—are ruthlessly torn<br>  asunder—the
  tender babe from the arms of its frantic mother—the heart-broken<br>  wife from
  her weeping husband—at the caprice or pleasure of irresponsible<br>  tyrants;—and,
  for the crime of having a dark complexion, suffer the pangs of<br>  hunger, the
  infliction of stripes, and the ignominy of brutal servitude. They<br>  are kept
  in heathenish darkness by laws expressly enacted to make their<br>  instruction
  a criminal offence.<br></p><p>  These are the prominent circumstances in the condition
  of more than TWO<br>  MILLIONS of our people, proof of which may be found in thousands
  of<br>  indisputable facts, and in the laws of the slaveholding States.<br></p><p>Hence
  we maintain—</p><p>  That in view of the civil and religious privileges of this
  nation, the guilt<br>  of its oppression is unequalled by any other on the face
  of the earth;—and,<br>  therefore,<br></p><p>  That it is bound to repent instantly,
  to undo the heavy burden, to break every<br>  yoke, and let the oppressed go free.<br></p><p>We
  farther maintain—</p><p>  That no man has a right to enslave or imbrute his brother—to
  hold or<br>  acknowledge him, for one moment, as a piece of merchandise—to keep
  back his<br>  hire by fraud—or to brutalize his mind by denying him the means of<br>
  \ intellectual, social and moral improvement.<br></p><p>  The right to enjoy liberty
  is inalienable. To invade it, is to usurp the<br>  prerogative of Jehovah. Every
  man has a right to his own body—to the products<br>  of his own labor—to the protection
  of law—and to the common advantages of<br>  society. It is piracy to buy or steal
  a native African and subject him to<br>  servitude. Surely the sin is as great to
  enslave an American as an African.<br></p><p>Therefore we believe and affirm—</p><p>
  \ That there is no difference,<br>  <em>in principle,</em>  between the African
  slave trade and American slavery;<br></p><p>  That every American citizen, who retains
  a human being in involuntary bondage,<br>  is [according to Scripture] a MAN-STEALER;<br></p><p>
  \ That the slaves ought instantly to be set free, and brought under the<br>  protection
  of law;<br></p><p>  That if they had lived from the time of Pharaoh down to the
  present period,<br>  and had been entailed through successive generations, their
  right to be free<br>  could never have been alienated, but their claims would have
  constantly risen<br>  in solemnity;<br></p><p>  That all those laws which are not
  in force, admitting the right of slavery,<br>  are therefore before God utterly
  null and void, being an audacious usurpation<br>  of the Divine prerogative, a daring
  infringement on the law of nature, a base<br>  overthrow of the very foundations
  of the social compact, a complete extinction<br>  of all the relations, endearments
  and obligations of mankind, and a<br>  presumptuous transgression of all the holy
  commandments—and that therefore<br>  they ought to be instantly abrogated.<br></p><p>We
  further believe and affirm—</p><p>  That all persons of color who possess the qualifications
  which are demanded of<br>  others, ought to be admitted forthwith to the enjoyment
  of the same<br>  privileges, and the exercise of the same prerogatives, as others;
  and that the<br>  paths of preferment, of wealth. and of intelligence, shall be
  opened as widely<br>  to them as to persons of a white complexion.<br></p><p>  We
  maintain that no compensation should be given to the planters emancipating<br>  their
  slaves—<br></p><p>  Because it would be a surrender of the great fundamental principle
  that man<br>  cannot hold property in man;<br></p><p>  Because<br>  <em>Slavery
  is a crime, and therefore is not an article to be sold;</em></p><p>  Because the
  holders of slaves are not the just proprietors of what they claim;<br>  freeing
  the slaves is not depriving them of property, but restoring it to the<br>  right
  owner; —it is not wronging the master, but righting the slave—restoring<br>  him
  to himself;<br></p><p>  Because immediate and general emancipation would only destroy
  nominal, not<br>  real property it would not amputate a limb or break a bone of
  the slaves, but<br>  by infusing motives into their breasts, would make them doubly
  valuable to the<br>  masters as free laborers; and<br></p><p>  Because if compensation
  is to be given at all, it should be given to the<br>  outraged and guiltless slaves,
  and not to those who have plundered and abused<br>  them.<br></p><p>  We regard,
  as delusive, cruel and dangerous, any scheme of expatriation which<br>  pretends
  to aid, either directly or indirectly, in the emancipation of the<br>  slaves, or
  to be a substitute for the immediate and total abolition of<br>  slavery.<br></p><p>
  \ We fully and unanimously recognize the sovereignty of each State, to legislate<br>
  \ exclusively on the subject of the slavery which is tolerated within its<br>  limits.
  We concede that Congress, under the present national compact, has no<br>  right
  to interfere with any of the slave states, in relation to this momentous<br>  subject.<br></p><p>
  \ But we maintain that Congress has a right, and is solemnly bound, to suppress<br>
  \ the domestic slave trade between the several States, and to abolish slavery in<br>
  \ those portions of our territory which the Constitution has placed under its<br>
  \ exclusive jurisdiction.<br></p><p>  We also maintain that there are, at the present
  time, the highest obligations<br>  resting upon the people of the free States, to
  remove slavery by moral and<br>  political action, as prescribed in the Constitution
  of United States. They are<br>  now living under a pledge of their tremendous physical
  force to fasten the<br>  galling fetters of tyranny upon the limbs of millions in
  the southern<br>  States;—they are liable to be called at any moment to suppress
  a general<br>  insurrection of the slaves;—they authorize the slave owner to vote
  for<br>  three-fifths of his slaves as property, and thus enable him to perpetuate
  his<br>  oppression;—they support a standing army at the south for its protection;—and<br>
  \ they seize the slave who has escaped into their territories, and send him back<br>
  \ to be tortured by an enraged master or a brutal driver.<br></p><p>  This relation
  to slavery is criminal and full of danger:<br>  <em>it must be broken up.</em></p><p>
  \ These are our views and principles—these, our designs and measures. With<br>  entire
  confidence in the overruling justice of God, we plant ourselves upon<br>  the Declaration
  of our Independence, and upon the truth of Divine Revelation,<br>  as upon the Everlasting
  Rock.<br></p><p>  We shall organize Anti-Slavery Societies, if possible, in every
  city, town and<br>  village of our land.<br></p><p>  We shall send forth Agents
  to lift up the voice of remonstrance, of warning of<br>  entreaty and rebuke.<br></p><p>
  \ We shall circulate, unsparingly and extensively, anti slavery tracts and<br>  periodicals.<br></p><p>
  \ We shall enlist the Pulpit and the Press in the cause of the suffering and the<br>
  \ dumb.<br></p><p>  We shall aim at a purification of the churches from all participation
  in the<br>  guilt of slavery.<br></p><p>  We shall encourage the labor of freemen
  over that of the slaves, by giving a<br>  preference to their productions;—and<br></p><p>
  \ We shall spare no exertions nor means to bring the whole nation to speedy<br>
  \ repentance.<br></p><p>  Our trust for victory is solely in GOD.<br>  <em>We</em>
  \ may be personally defeated, but our principles never. TRUTH, JUSTICE, and<br>
  \ HUMANITY, must and will gloriously triumph. Already a host is coming up to the<br>
  \ help of the Lord against the mighty, and the prospect before us is full of<br>
  \ encouragement.<br></p><p>  Submitting this DECLARATION to the candid examination
  of the people of this<br>  country, and of the friends of liberty all over the world,
  we hereby affix our<br>  signatures to it; pledging ourselves that, under the guidance
  and by the help<br>  of Almighty God, we will do all that in us lies, consistently
  with this<br>  Declaration of our principles, to overthrow the most execrable system
  of<br>  slavery that has ever been witnessed upon earth—to deliver our land from
  its<br>  deadliest curse—to wipe out the foulest stain which rests upon our national<br>
  \ escutcheon—and to secure to the colored population of the United States all<br>
  \ the rights and privileges which belong to them as men and as Americans—come<br>
  \ what may to our persons, our interests, or our reputations—whether we live to<br>
  \ witness the triumph of Justice, Liberty and Humanity, or perish untimely as<br>
  \ martyrs in this great, benevolent, and holy cause.<br></p><p>  David<br>  Thurston,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ B. Russell,<br></p><p>  Nathan<br>  Winslow,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ David Jones,<br></p><p>  Jos Southwick,<br>  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Enoch Mack, 2d.<br></p><p>  Jas. F.<br>  Otis;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ James Loughhead.<br></p><p>  Isaac<br>  Winslow.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ J. McCullough.<br></p><p>  David<br>  Cambell,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ E.P. Atlee,<br></p><p>  Orson S.<br>  Murray,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ J.M.McKim,<br></p><p>  D.S.Southmayd,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Wm. L. Garrison,<br></p><p>  E.L.<br>  Capron,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Ray Potter,<br></p><p>  Joshua<br>  Coffin,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ John Prentice,<br></p><p>  Amos A.<br>  Phelps,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ G.W. Benson,<br></p><p>  J.G.<br>  Whittier,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Samuel J. May,<br></p><p>  H.P.<br>  Wakefield,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ A. Kingsley, Jr,<br></p><p>  J.G.<br>  Barbadoes,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Edwin A Stillman,<br></p><p>  D.T. Kimball,<br>  Jr.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ S.S. Jocelyn,<br></p><p>  D.E.<br>  Jewett,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ R.B.Hall,<br></p><p>  J.R.<br>  Cambell,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Beriah Green,<br></p><p>  N.<br>  Southard,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Lewis Tappan,<br></p><p>  Arnold<br>  Bufum,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ John Rankin,<br></p><p>  Wm. Green,<br>  Jr.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Aaron Vickers,<br></p><p>  A.L.<br>  Cox,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ John R. Sleeper,<br></p><p>  Wm.<br>  Goodell,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ L. Gillingham,<br></p><p>  Elizur Wright,<br>  Jr.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ John Sharpe, Jr.<br></p><p>  C.W.<br>  Denison,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ James Mott<br></p><p>  John<br>  Frost,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ James White,<br></p><p>  Geo.<br>  Bourne,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Jona. Parkhurst,<br></p><p>  Evan<br>  Lewis,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ C. Gillingham,&nbsp;<br></p><p>  E.A.<br>  Atlee,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ J.M. Sterling,<br></p><p>  Robert<br>  Purvis,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Milton Sutliff,<br></p><p>  J. Mc<br>  Crummell,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Levi Sutliff,<br></p><p>  Thomas<br>  Shipley,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
  \ Thos. Whitson.<br></p><p>  <em>    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Signed in the Adelphia
  Hall, in the city of<br>    Philadelphia, on the sixth day of December, A.D.<br>
  \ </em>  1833.<br></p><p>  Many notes/links here: December 1833 formation of American
  Anti-Slavery<br>  Society covered in<br>  <em>The Abolitionist</em>  &nbsp;1:12:177-178<br></p><p>among
  officers</p><p>Moses Brown RI VP</p><p>Eli Ives CT VP</p><p>Eleazer T. Fitch CT
  VP</p><p>Samuel J. May CT VP</p><p>Gustavus F. Davis CT VP</p><p>Josiah Cady - Providence
  - Manager</p><p>Henry Cushing - Providence - Manager</p><p>George W. Benson - Providence
  - Manager</p><p>John Prentice - Providence - Manager</p><p>Thomas Williams - Providence
  - Manager</p><p>George Benson - Brooklyn CT - Manager</p><p>Simeon S. Jocelyn -
  New Haven - Manager</p><p>Alpheus Kingsley - Norwich - Manager</p><p>James T. Dickinson
  - Norwich - Manager</p><p>S. P. Dole - Norwich - Manager</p><p>Joshua Leavitt -
  NYC - Manager</p><p>William Goodell - NYC - Manager</p><p>Lewis Tappan - NYC - Manager</p><p>George
  Bourne - NYC - Manager</p><p>Charles W. Denison - NYC - Manager</p><p>Isaac M. Diamond
  - NYC - Manager</p><p>Peter Williams - NYC - Manager</p><p>Arnold Buffum - Philadelphia
  - Manager</p><p>Edwin P. Atlee - Philadelphia - Manager</p><p>Robert Purvis - Philadelphia
  - Manager</p><p>Benjamin Lundy - Philadelphia - Manager</p><p>James McCrummell -
  Philadelphia - Manager</p><p>  <em>The Abolitionist</em>  1:12:178-180 (December
  1833)<br></p>"
Scholarly Notes: 
Commentary: 'There is much to add, relevant to The Unionist and the Canterbury Female
  Academy, to this Declaration. <p><br>  In the same issue of <em>The Abolitionist</em>
  that printed the Declaration, African-American delegate Robert Purvis delivered
  an encomium for William Lloyd Garrison:<br>  <em>The Abolitionist</em><br>  1:12:183
  (December 1833)<br></p><p>In a pair of motions intimately related to the Canterbury
  Female Academy, the convention expressed its appreciation of education in general,
  and Canterbury in particular.</p><br><p>"On motion of Simeon S. Jocelyn, seconded
  by Amos A. Phelps, it was</p><br><p><br>  Resolved.&nbsp; That the fountains of
  knowledge, like those of salvation,<br>  should be open to every creature, and that
  we regard those laws and prejudices<br>  which prevent or restrict the education
  of the people of color, bond or free,<br>  as pre-eminently cruel and impious, and
  disgraceful to a christian state or<br>  nation; and that we will seek their abolishment,
  both in the free and slave<br>  States, if possible more earnestly than corporeal
  slavery itself, in as much<br>  as ignorance enslaves the mind, and tends to the
  ruin of the immortal soul.<br></p><br><p>On motion of John Prentice, seconded by
  William Goodell, it was</p><br><p><br>  Resolved, That this convention highly approve
  of the philanthropic effort of<br>  Miss Prudence Crandall of Canterbury, Conn.
  in her labors to instruct our<br>  colored sisters; and while we deeply sympathize
  with her in view of the<br>  persecutions she has endured in the prosecution of
  her pious purposes, we<br>  pledge ourselves to afford her our continued countenance
  and assistance"<br>  <em>The Abolitionist</em><br>  1:12:184 (December 1833) Goodell
  was the editor of <em>The Genius of Temperance</em>; Jocelyn and Phelps were both
  endorsers of the Canterbury Female Academy.<br></p><br><p><br>  <em>The Abolitionist</em>
  in that same December issue also published a letter from Charles Stuart to William
  Lloyd Garrison, that <br>  made reference also to letters from Buffum and<br>  Forten:
  "Many hearts are beating here for the glorious Prudence<br>  Crandall. Some of my
  young friends are working little parcels of<br>  presents for me to take to her
  dear pupils in the Spring." (written from<br>  Liverpool)<br></p><br><p><br>  Samuel
  Joseph May and John G. Whittier worked with the principal author, William Lloyd
  Garrison, on the 1833 Declaration of Sentiments of the American Anti-Slavery Society.
  The language of the Declaration, and the sense of who was behind it, demonstrates
  how nonviolence already held some prominence in the movement at the time of the
  Canterbruy Female Academy. Furthermore, they were working at the home of African-American
  activist and dentist James McCrummell (Benjamin Quarles, <em>Black Abolitionists</em>
  New York: Da Capo Press, 1991; original edition 1969, p. vii-viii) <br></p><br>'
order: '158'
layout: template_item
collection: template
---
